# Bone-Age-Assessment-with-DL
A case study of different deep learning approaches for pediatric bone age assessment task from hand x-ray images in regression

**Abstract**

In the field of pediatric medicine, accurate and timely prediction of bone age is essential for assessing growth and development, and informing treatment decisions. This study addresses the RSNA Pediatric Bone Age Challenge using deep learning and image analysis techniques and presents experimental results and analysis from two alternative model architectures. The challenge aims to advance artificial intelligence (AI) in medical imaging by encouraging the development of accurate machine learning (ML) models for determining skeletal age from pediatric hand radiographs. In this paper, two models are presented: a transfer learning model using Xception, enhanced with the AdamW optimizer and the preprocess input image pre-processing algorithm, and a ConvMixer model, also using AdamW with CLAHE. Both models incorporate categorical, numerical, and visual data to improve prediction accuracy. Additional techniques, including batch normalization and regularization, are applied to stabilize intermediate activations, prevent overfitting, and improve robustness. The significance of our results lies in its potential to improve pediatric bone age prediction accuracy, streamline diagnostic workflows, and reduce the workload on healthcare professionals. Overall, this research offers valuable insights into pediatric bone age assessment and presents opportunities for further exploration in this important area of child health.
